So at this point,
we have gotten everything out of this request that the user might have sent us.
We know which full you are.
Well,
they're asking for.
But specifically we want to know the path,
for example slash Fu.
We know the query strings that they might have asked for with its request.
We know which HDP method they're asking or they're sending.
We know the headers that they're sending.
We know the payload that they're sending,
if any.
So now we have all the data of this request.
We want to package it up into a nice object and send it on or route it to some request
handlers.
So our next task is to start defining some sample request handlers and set up a routing
structure,
set up a router so that this http server can look at a request and route it to the right
handler that it needs to go to the way that we're going to conceptualize.
This is pretty simple.
We're going to route requests based on the path that the users asking for.
We want to define handlers that are specific to a path.
So,
for example,
if they ask for slash food that should go to the food handler.
If they ask for slash users,
that should go to the users handler.
So the first thing that we need to do is set up a router that can match incoming paths to
their respective handlers.
Lastly,
we want to set up a structure to allow any requests that doesn't match something within the
router to go to a default handler,
which will be the 404 handler,
the not found handler.
So let's start buying defining a router down at the bottom of the file,
saying that we are defining a request router where it is going to call it a router,
and it's going to be an object.
Each path is unique,
so there's no reason not to use an object.
And for us,
we're going to just define one path for now.
And that path is going to be called Sample.
And when that path gets called,
we want the handler to be the sample handler,
so handlers dot sample should get cold.
Now you might be saying,
What is Handlers down sample?
We didn't find that anywhere.
That's right.
So let's go ahead and also define our handlers.
We're gonna start with an object call handlers,
initialize it to an empty object.
Now,
let's write the sample handler.
It's gonna be a function that accepts in data and a callback,
and we're going to do some stuff inside of it in a moment.
But let's also define a not found him.
We don't need to write the not found handler in the router because it's it's only gonna get
Call it if nothing matches anything else in the router.
So handlers dot not found again.
It's a function that takes in data and a call back,
and eventually we'll have it do something.
So let's talk about what these handlers should do,
and then we'll work on some logic up here,
Teoh actually call these handlers and route incoming requests to these handlers.
The data that it receives is going to be a big block of data of everything contained in
requests.
Basically,
everything we've parse out of the request up here is going to be contained in the data
objects sent to the hamburger.
There were also going to send it a call back,
and we want the handlers to call back when they're done handling the requests and tell us
two things we want to call back a http status code and a payload.
And that payload should be an object.
Because although we haven't enforced Jason yet,
we're starting to build this ap I toe work with Jason exclusively.
Okay.
So even though we don't have a way of calling this handler,
let's just set up the sample handler so that it can call back according to the specs.
So it's going to call back.
Let's say that when you call the sample,
you should get a 406 response,
and it's gonna call back and objects.
And my name is simple.
Handler did not found is going to call back the status code for four and doesn't need a
payload.
All right,
so now we have a router.
We have not found handler,
and we have a sample handler.
Now,
we need to modify our H two b server so that it figures out which hammer to call,
depending on the path of the user is requesting and sends it the data and then receives the
call back data from that handler and sends the response in the correct issue.
Be satis code to the user.
Okay,
let's go back up here.
We want to put all this logic in the request on end handler,
because this is going to get Call it for every request,
regardless,
if it has a payload or not so below where we cap off the buffer.
Let's go ahead and choose the handler.
This request should go to if one is not found used.
The not found hammer.
All right,
so we're going to say that the chosen handler equals Now we want to say if the path that
the user is requesting exists as a key on the router.
For example,
if they're requesting slash sample that exists on the router,
so that requests you get routed to handlers shot sample,
but if it doesn't exist,
if they request slash food,
we want to look at this.
Rather say,
Does this rather have a dot a food key?
It doesn't.
So we should round things to the not found handler instead.
So the chosen handler equals Does the type of router trimmed path exist?
Is it defined?
If the type is not undefined,
that means if it exists,
then the router,
it should go to lives at grounder trimmed path.
Otherwise,
it should go to handlers not found.
Okay,
now we've chosen a handler.
Now we want to construct the data object to send to the handler.
I was gonna call it data,
and we're gonna add a hoping to keys on it.
That comprises all the data that we've parsed out of this request as we've been working
with it.
So we know what the trip path iss.
The trim path is Jim Path.
The query string object is query,
string object,
the method,
his method.
The headers are currently defined as headers.
And the payload is defined right now as a buffer.
If there is any,
if it's not,
if there is none,
it's gonna be an empty string.
Okay,
so that's the data that we want to send to the chosen handler.
Now,
we can actually called the chosen happen.
We can round the request to the handler specified in the router to call that we just need
to call shows in handler because chosen handler now holds the value of whatever that
function waas that it chose.
So shows in handler get called and we pass it.
This data object we just made.
And what we expect back is what we talked about a minute ago.
We expect back a status code and a payload.
But now we want to define some sensible defaults for status,
code and payload on the assumption that some handlers,
like the not found handler,
are going to call back and not have a payload defined.
Other handlers might just call back and not have anything to find,
or they might have all.
So let's define the default status code.
Use the status code.
Call it that by the hammer or default to 200.
We also want to define a default payload.
Use the payload.
Call it back by the handler.
Four default to an empty object.
Okay,
so this status code,
we're gonna say that status code goes type of status code equals number.
Turn every operator status Code Colin 200.
What that means is again,
this is using the turn.
Every operator,
which is a condensed way of using.
Ah,
you know,
if else is saying if the status code is type of number,
then it's good.
We accept any Sasko.
That's a number so defined status code as whatever it is,
it is already.
If it's something other than a number,
including undefined,
then go ahead and to find it to 200.
Now let's do the same for the payload.
The payload,
The only kind of payload we wanted except is a object.
So the payload is if the type of payload equals object,
then it's fine.
Go ahead and define payload as payload,
otherwise to find as an empty object.
So now,
regardless of if they call back a payload or not,
it's going to be either the object they gave us or is going to be an empty object.
But now we can't send an object back down to the user who sent this request.
We need to send a string.
Every payload that we received is now an object.
So go ahead and convert it to a string.
We're gonna call it payload strength,
and we're going to use the standard Jason String.
If I for the payload that we are sending back now,
remember,
this is not the paler that we received.
This is the payload that the handler is sending back to the user.
Finally,
we want to return the response.
So instead of having simply rez end saying hello,
world.
Every time we want to say rez,
right head and then status code.
What this means is reusing the built in right head function that comes on every response
object received by the HDP server to right the status code.
So if we are returning a 200 we are writing that 200 response here.
If it's a 444 or six whatever,
or whatever status code the handler defined were writing it there as well.
Now,
rather than raise and hello world,
we want to raise and the payload string.
So we're gonna swap this string out for a string or new string.
So now we are writing the status code that the Hamlet gave back and we were writing the
payload that the handler gave back.
Jason.
String aside.
Lastly,
let's take this console log,
move it inside of the callback for the chosen handler.
And rather than logging out the payload that we received were going to say that we are
returning this response and we're going toe log out the status code and the payload string
that we're sending back.
Okay,
So toe walk back through this again.
We're calling the chosen handler.
We're sending it a whole bunch of data,
which is all the same data that we spent a few lectures gathering.
We're calling that handler.
We know what's handler to call.
Based on it being defined in the router.
When the handler calls back,
we expect it to be sending us a status code and a payload.
If it doesn't send either those or if he status code is in a number or if the payload isn't
an object,
we default them to 200 empty object,
respectively.
Then we convert the payload to a string using Jason String.
If I we go ahead and return the status code to the user and the payload to the user as a
string,
and then we log out what we did.
Okay,
so I'm gonna save this and go ahead and start the APA.
All right.
I have a syntax error.
This is a good time to point out what errors look like in note.
This is tends to be what it looks like if you have an error that's occurring at the moment
,
that theme app is spinning up and trying to process all the synchronous commands.
In my case,
this error that it caught is that I did var data and didn't have an equal sign.
So I'm gonna go ahead and throw in the equal sign.
It tried to give me some pointers about the error,
so it said that this occurred in index dot Js online 43.
So that's the line that I corrected,
and it pointed out where it was having trouble parsing or under understanding this when you
have syntax,
error unexpected token,
this is generally what it looks like.
It will be a line number and your point to where it's having trouble parsing.
That's not necessarily always the place where your issue is,
but that is the place where the node runtime got tripped up and could no longer understand
the job script that you were trying to write.
So let's try toe started up again.
So we have any other syntax errors.
Not yet.
There might be other syntax errors,
but it didn't catch any in the card of the code that's been executed so far.
But remember,
the only thing that the note runtime is process so far is the synchronous parts.
Everything within here hasn't really been called yet.
And so it might catch certain errors.
It might not catch others others,
such as certain things not being defined when it reaches this point.
For example,
if I tried to use the data object here and never defined data,
I might get an object.
I'm I get an error thrown on Lee during execution.
Not when the at boots up in the first place,
but things such as,
like a missing equal sign that'll get caught when you're trying to start up the app because
it's actually having trouble parsing the job script.
All right,
so let's go ahead and go back to Postman.
Now that the apus started,
I'm going to switch back to a post Request.
This is the body that I'm sending those of the headers that I'm sending.
This is all from a previous lecture.
Gonna ho head and send it off.
You can see that I got back for four not found and an empty object back.
All right,
so the server said I'm returning this response 44 and the object Now,
let's go ahead and request a path that the server should recognize,
and it should recognise the sample path I should.
And there we get back a four or six and this object.
So let's go ahead and do look host 1000 slash sample send request and great.
I got back this object.
The name is Sample Hammer.
That's the object that I wrote back and it's been turned into Jason.
And the status code that I got is 406 Not acceptable.
Don't read too much into that.
I just called it for 06 Just for this example,
you can call it anything you want.
So again the server logged out what it was doing.
It's returning this response for 06 code and that if we request,
you know,
sample slash blah,
blah blah,
I'm gonna get another 44 because that showed up to the server as this whole path.
It looked for that whole path as a key on this router.
Couldn't find it.
But if I do sample slash,
it finds it.
If I do sample without the slash,
Because,
remember,
we're trimming off all the slashes.
If I do sample and at a query strain,
it still finds it because it's parsing the query string separately and really just checking
the path when it comes to routing.
All right,
so it looks like we're routing pretty well.
The http status code getting returned.
The Jason is getting returned as a string.
And so the routings working the handlers are working as well.
Now we can move on to the next lecture.